README.md, before:

# HTML and CSS Estentials Portfolio 1 Project
## Welcome!

![responsive design](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/firstpic.jpg)

### This is my Portfolio 1 Project regarding the Code Institute's Diploma in Software Development (E-commerce Applications).
It is a single page website, which contains four independent sections and the navigation bar (sticky on top of the page) designated to make all of the components easily accessible.

Link to the deployed website is [here](https://klaudiabc.github.io/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/)

Link to the repository is [here](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project)

## Content
The theme of the website is meditation and mental self-improvement. Page is designed as a promotion of self-help that can be achieved through practises leading to control the mind. Nowadays, facing the corona crisis, there is more and more demand for therapy and psychological help. WHO calls depresion a common mental disorder and estimates that it can affect even 5% of the worldwide population therefore I believe the topic is very accurate to current social issues and following trends.

## Production goals:
- introduction to a basics of meditation
- explanation of the positive effects of meditation
- inspiration to join the community

## UX Design:
### Strategy Plane:
There are several design practises to make a page easy to read and accessible:
- easy navigation - navbar sticked to the top of the page
- formatted amount of information with the possibility of learning more by clicking on anchor tags attached to particular positions
- important information formatted as bold- included short video tutorial for beginners
- colour contrast- dark background as the response to latest web design fashion trends (see more in colour layout)

### Scope Plane:
There are following features included into project:
- logo - top of the page
- carousel including images
- navigation bar - top of the page
- social media links - in the footer
- gallery
- input form

### Structure Plane:
The content is built via 4 separated sections:
- section 1 - Home page - a carousel with an images indicating the purpose and theme of the website
- section 2 - Our path - introduction of theories and goals
- section 3 - Inspirations - a gallery element containing inspirational images
- section 4 - Join Us - an input form which allows you to register for meditation meetings.

### Sceletorn Plane:
Wireframe project was designed for a full size screen (PC) but the project is responsive and can be displayed on every device.
See the initial project in the Balsamiq Software:

![wireframe project](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/balsamiq_wireframe_project1.jpg)

## Layout
### Colour range
I have used the shade of blue colour (#123146) as a background. It starts dark from the top and fades slightly to a lighter shade on the bottom of the page.
As mentioned before, the reason for a dark mode of the page is the growing popularity of the dark background. There is also a significant number of users who are switching their settings on the devices to a dark mode. According to the latest search done by Android: 81,9% of android users claim to use the dark mode on their devices.This trend has been used by many tech giants, who have introduced the dark version of their website/application: Meta, Reddit, Youtube, Samsung, Apple and many more.
Colour #123146 is a mixture of blue and grey. Those shades also have many emotional connotations:
- dark blue is often recognized as a royal shade, often means reliable authority, loyalty and confidence
- a horizontal rule brings a touch of light blue - calming, shooting colour, symbol of connection with a nature

Additional colours:
- Orange: a colour of positive energy, which is a main message of the page. It brings a light, breaks the boringness and bursts with youthfulness, energy, and happiness. Designers also believe that orange colour inspires creativity and uplift people’s moods.
- Lightcyan - very bright shade of cyan, a colour of the text, logo and navigation bar, as a basic contrast to the background.

### Typography:
As a main font I choose Montserrat, a sans serif typeface. The reasons: high readability, often chosen for a simple and clean-looking design.

## Implementation process:
I have used this project to deploy different features, play with code and exercise the practises commonly used in developer work, like commiting a code and pushing it into a branch. The design of the page had changed multiple times as an effect of curiosity, trying different approaches and simply training the coding skills.
Stages of implementation:
- 15.01 - I have started this project from the very basic structure of HTML and CSS.
- 16.01 - First version included: nested lists, input form, tabel (with times of meetings).
- 17.01 - I have attached a bootstrap extension to a project and started an exchange of bootstrap components with the one I wrote by myself, first feature was a carousel on the top of the page.
- 18.01 - I adjust a navigation bar with a bootstrap version and build a section 2. I found the information too long and detalic, therefore I format the text for shorter and added extra anchor tags, which could provide more information for users who want to know more. There was a white double border around each paragraph.

![version before](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/findyou01_img.jpg)

- 19.01 - Adjust footer into a bootstrap version, remove the borders from paragraphs because it was bringing too much confusion. Also adjust an input form into a bootstrap extension.
- 20.01 - Adding styling and moving the elements inside a dom to achieve a clear and easily readable front-end layout. Also the video needed to be embedded and social media buttons in the footer had to be fixed (did not display the logos)
- 21.01 - After a consultation with my mentor, I decided to add an extra section, where I included a gallery with inspirational images. Also make sure the elements on the page are correctly displayed and there is enough contrast between colours. I ran the first tests which indicated basic mistakes in HTML (fixed).
- 23.01 - The code was approved by the W3C validator. Unfortunately my Performance score was very low, therefore I decided to optimise the images.

Before:
![lighthouse score](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/lighthouse.jpg)

- 24.01 - I realised that the names for my classes are not specific enough and changed them to suit future implementations. I also reduced the amount of css written over an ID's of the elements. Instead I added a class to the element, thanks to what I can use the particular css styling on other element by attaching the particular class to this element. The pictures were still too big therefore I resized them.

## Technologies used:
- HTML5 and CSS3
- GitHub, Gitpod and Git
- Bootstrap version 4
- FontAwesome
- VS code
- Wireframe Software Balsamiq

## Recourses:
- Code Institute course materials, walktroughts and mentor support
- Code Institute Slack Community
- Following a tutorials by Mosh and Scrimba
- W3C schools
- Stack Overflow
- Pexels (for images)

## Testing:
- W3C validator:
![W3C validator score](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/w3c_validator.jpg)

- W3C CSS validator:
![W3C CSS validator score](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/w3c_css_validator.jpg)

Commit message:

add a feedback to submit button, add extra info to README

README.md, after:

# HTML and CSS Essentials Portfolio 1 Project
## Welcome!

![responsive design](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/firstpic.jpg)

### This is my Portfolio 1 Project regarding the Code Institute's Diploma in Software Development (E-commerce Applications).
It is a single page website, which contains four independent sections and the navigation bar (sticky on top of the page) designated to make all of the components easily accessible.

Link to the deployed website is [here](https://klaudiabc.github.io/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/)

Link to the repository is [here](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project)

## Content
The theme of the website is meditation and mental self-improvement. Page is designed as a promotion of self-help that can be achieved through practises leading to control the mind. Nowadays, facing the corona crisis, there is more and more demand for therapy and psychological help. WHO calls depresion a common mental disorder and estimates that it can affect even 5% of the worldwide population therefore I believe the topic is very accurate to current social issues and following trends.

## Production goals:
- introduction to a basics of meditation
- explanation of the positive effects of meditation
- inspiration to join the community

## UX Design:
### Strategy Plane:
There are several design practises to make a page easy to read and accessible:
- easy navigation - navbar sticked to the top of the page
- formatted amount of information with the possibility of learning more by clicking on anchor tags attached to particular positions
- important information formatted as bold
- included short video tutorial for beginners
- colour contrast- dark background as the response to latest web design fashion trends (see more in colour layout)

### Scope Plane:
There are following features included into project:
- logo - top of the page
- carousel including images
- navigation bar - top of the page
- social media links - in the footer
- gallery
- input form

### Structure Plane:
The content is built via 4 separated sections:
- section 1 - Home page - a carousel with an images indicating the purpose and theme of the website
- section 2 - Our path - introduction of theories and goals
- section 3 - Inspirations - a gallery element containing inspirational images
- section 4 - Join Us - an input form which allows you to register for meditation meetings.

### Sceletorn Plane:
Wireframe project was designed for a full size screen (PC) but the project is responsive and can be displayed on every device.
See the initial project in the Balsamiq Software:

![wireframe project](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/balsamiq_wireframe_project1.jpg)

## Layout
### Colour range
I have used the shade of blue colour (#123146) as a background. It starts dark from the top and fades slightly to a lighter shade on the bottom of the page.
As mentioned before, the reason for a dark mode of the page is the growing popularity of the dark background. There is also a significant number of users who are switching their settings on the devices to a dark mode. According to the latest search done by Android: 81,9% of android users claim to use the dark mode on their devices.This trend has been used by many tech giants, who have introduced the dark version of their website/application: Meta, Reddit, Youtube, Samsung, Apple and many more.
Colour #123146 is a mixture of blue and grey. Those shades also have many emotional connotations:
- dark blue is often recognized as a royal shade, often means reliable authority, loyalty and confidence
- a horizontal rule brings a touch of light blue - calming, shooting colour, symbol of connection with a nature

Additional colours:
- Orange: a colour of positive energy, which is a main message of the page. It brings a light, breaks the boringness and bursts with youthfulness, energy, and happiness. Designers also believe that orange colour inspires creativity and uplift people’s moods.
- Lightcyan - very bright shade of cyan, a colour of the text, logo and navigation bar, as a basic contrast to the background.

### Typography:
As a main font I choose Montserrat, a sans serif typeface. The reasons: high readability, often chosen for a simple and clean-looking design.

## Implementation process:
I have used this project to deploy different features, play with code and exercise the practises commonly used in developer work, like commiting a code and pushing it into a branch. The design of the page had changed multiple times as an effect of curiosity, trying different approaches and simply training the coding skills.
Stages of implementation:
- 15.01 - I have started this project from the very basic structure of HTML and CSS.
- 16.01 - First version included: nested lists, input form, tabel (with times of meetings).
- 17.01 - I have attached a bootstrap extension to a project and started an exchange of bootstrap components with the one I wrote by myself, first feature was a carousel on the top of the page.
- 18.01 - I adjusted a navigation bar with a bootstrap version and built a section 2. I found the information too long and detalic, therefore I format the text for shorter and added extra anchor tags, which could provide more information for users who want to know more. There was a white double border around each paragraph.

![version before](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/findyou01_img.jpg)

- 19.01 - Adjust footer into a bootstrap version, remove the borders from paragraphs because it was bringing too much confusion. Also adjust an input form into a bootstrap extension.
- 20.01 - Adding styling and moving the elements inside a dom to achieve a clear and easily readable front-end layout. Also the video needed to be embedded and social media buttons in the footer had to be fixed (did not display the logos)
- 21.01 - After a consultation with my mentor, I decided to add an extra section, where I included a gallery with inspirational images. Also make sure the elements on the page are correctly displayed and there is enough contrast between colours. I ran the first tests which indicated basic mistakes in HTML (fixed).
- 23.01 - The code was approved by the W3C validator. Unfortunately my Performance score was very low, therefore I decided to optimise the images.

Before:
![lighthouse score](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/lighthouse.jpg)

- 24.01 - I realised that the names for my classes are not specific enough and changed them to suit future implementations. I also reduced the amount of css written over an ID's of the elements. Instead I added a class to the element, thanks to what I can use the particular css styling on other element by attaching the particular class to this element. The pictures were still too big therefore I resized them.

## Technologies used:
- HTML5 and CSS3
- GitHub, Gitpod and Git
- Bootstrap version 4
- FontAwesome
- VS code
- Wireframe Software Balsamiq

## Recourses:
- Code Institute course materials, walktroughts and mentor support
- Code Institute Slack Community
- Following a tutorials by Mosh and Scrimba
- W3schools
- Stack Overflow
- Pexels (for images)

## Deployment:

The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
2. At the top of the Repository - go to "Settings" Button.
3. Scroll down the Settings page and locate the "GitHub Pages" Section.
4. Click the dropdown button called "None" and select "Master Branch".
5. The page will automatically refresh and provide you with a link to the "GitHub Pages" deploying your project in the live-view.

## Testing:
Tests have been performed on the: Firefox, Internet Explorer, Chrome and Safari.
Testing also included different devices:
- iPhone 8
- Lenovo TAB m10
- Samsung Galaxy Note
- Samsung Galaxy s20
All the results are consistent.
The features, which was taken into a testing:
- check if the buttons works
- check if images are displayed correctly
- check if the anchor tags are opening in new tab
- check if the social media buttons are working
- check if the submit button gives user a feedback
- check if the attached video is working

- W3C validator:
![W3C validator score](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/w3c_validator.jpg)

- W3C CSS validator:
![W3C CSS validator score](https://github.com/KlaudiaBC/HTML-and-CSS-Estentials-Portfolio-Project/blob/c763d0ed5b1751b7fb9c2166437fea7d5971dbb0/assets/images/readme%20img/w3c_css_validator.jpg)
